----------------------- REVIEW 1 --------------------- PAPER: 167 TITLE: On
the performance of real-time DSP on Android devices AUTHORS: André J. Bianchi
and Marcelo Queiroz

OVERALL RATING: 0 (borderline paper) REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 2 (medium)

The paper describes a benchmarking app for Android devices aiming at measuring
the devices' capabilities concerning audio signal processing tasks. The
workflow of the application and the benchmark results are given for 10
devices.

While it is interesting to get an impression of what kind of DSP algorithms
are able to run on current Android devices the presented work has some flaws.
Most important the sampling rate of the used audio material is not given.
Without this piece of information one cannot relate the processing times on a
block to the playing duration of this block (i.e., cannot tell if a real-time
processing is possible). This is especially relevant for the stress test.


Also, the methodology seems somehow heuristic and reminds me of hardware
evaluations in computer magazines. From a scientific paper I would expect

- to also justify the selection of devices From "most of the devices available
  for our experiment were of strict personal use" I infer that instead of
  deciding on a representative sample of current devices the authors have used
  their personal devices.

- and (more important) to draw more general conclusions.  The main conclusion
  one can draw from this paper is that, given the described algorithms,
  certain devices perform better than others. It would be interesting to see
  if there is a determining factor for the performance (CPU speed, API
  level?). Also, the authors should relate their results to other benchmarks
  for which results are available for a larger set of devices.


Some minor issues:

Sec. 1) sistematic => systematis Sec. 1) real time DSP object-oriented model
=> object-oriented real time DSP model Footnote 3) 2^13 => 2^{13} Sec. 2)  and
DSP block size => and the DSP block size Sec. 2) DSP algorithm execution time
and DSP callback period => DSP algorithm execution times, and DSP callback
periods Sec. 2.1) What is the usage of the LiveActivity class? Is the app also
intended for other purposes than performance testing?  Sec. 2.1) In the
sequence diagram the DspAlgorithm class is called by the AudioStream class -
in the text it says that it is scheduled by the DspThread.  Sec. 2.1) can be
periodically output as strings of values over Wi-Fi, bluetooth or writing to a
file => can be periodically output as strings of values over Wi-Fi or
bluethooth as well as written to a file Sec. 3.2) Each line gives the the
maximum => the maximum

Sec. 2.1) Reference [3], i.e., the entire proceedings of the Dafx 2002
conference is not a good reference describing an IIR filter. A signal
processing primer should be cited instead.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 --------------------- PAPER: 167 TITLE: On
the performance of real-time DSP on Android devices AUTHORS: André J. Bianchi
and Marcelo Queiroz

OVERALL RATING: 2 (accept) REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 2 (medium)

This paper provides technical evaluation of applicability of DSP algorithms
within a framework of Android OS for mobile phones. A number of mobile phones
are employed for experimental evaluation. An android application to access
workload of Java-based DSP algorithms is proposed and developed by the
authors. The conducted evaluation provides upper bound of workload.

This is an interesting study, as no evaluations were presented before on the
question of how well will DSP algorithms manage with real-time conditions on
Android platform. The conducted evaluation is thoroughly done. It shows that
the majority of considered mobile phones are actually able to manage with DSP
algorithms, at least simple ones. As authors mention multi-threading, it would
be interesting to know the state of tested devices: where they new or not, how
busy were devices with other running applications? Did authors collect any
data on idle workload of tested devices?

I think this study is worth presenting at SMC and it will probably inspire
developers, scientists and artists to create novel sound/music apps on Android
platform. The main contribution of the authors is a developed application.

Minor comments: All references to tables and sections should be start from a
capital letter, e.g., Figure 3 or Section 3.  Page 4: "evice performance" -
misspell?


----------------------- REVIEW 3 --------------------- PAPER: 167 TITLE: On
the performance of real-time DSP on Android devices AUTHORS: André J. Bianchi
and Marcelo Queiroz

OVERALL RATING: 3 (strong accept) REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 4 (expert)

The article introduces a software for the measurement of real-time dsp
performance aspects of Android devices and gives some achieved benchmark
results. The largest section of the contribution "2. Methods" describes the
class architecture and the corresponding possible "modes of use" of the
software, as well as the choice of three dsp algorithms selected by the
authors for representative, comparative performance measurements on ten
different Android devices with different processing hardware and versions of
the Android API. It also reports the strategy used for deriving a benchmark
for the maximum number of FIR filter coefficients that the various devices are
able to apply in real-time at different sizes of processing buffers.  Results
of these tests are reported in section 3 (titled accordingly) in graphical
representations and discussed in the accompanying text.

I consider this contribution very useful as a guideline for Android developers
planning on implementing sound processing algorithms in real-time applications
on mobile devices. By making their code available under free software licence
(as the authors of the article promise to do) the work will be of long-term
value also beyond the interest of their currently gained performance values
(i.e. when the used current hardware might be outdated). The article is well
structured, understandable and pleasant to read.


Minor remarks and suggestions:

Abstract, last third - "This work presents an object oriented model..., and
focus on" -> ...focusses on...  Introduction, second phrase - "sistematic" ->
systematic...  Introduction, first phrase in second column - "...Android OS -
and his fully free software..." -> ...its fully free...  Subsection 2.4.,
third paragraph - "evice" -> device

The graphs in figures 4-7 might be optimized for better readability. This
should be considered in particular since the article in its current form spans
6.5 pages and, if included in the proceedings will in any case occupy 7,
possibly 8 pages, which leaves some space for larger graphics.


